# Wheeler Graph Toolkit

Final Project for Computational Genomics: Sequences (EN.601.647) at JHU by 
* Eduardo Aguila (eaguila6)
* Shaunak Shah (shaunak215)
* Kuan-Hao Chao (Kuanhao-Chao)
* Beril Erdogdu (berilerdogdu) 

Our suite of tools for Wheeler Graphs contains functionality for the following features: visualization of graphs in .DOT format, checker for WGs given node and edge labels, random generation of WGs, recognizer for WGs given only edge labels, and pattern detection within a WG. 

## Configuration 
In order to run the following, be sure to have installed/ updated the following:
* `pip3 install networkx`
* `pip3 install graphviz `
* i dont remember the rest but add them in here



# Repository Structure
The various features of this toolkit are packaged into the following folders: 

## Visualizer

Within the visualizer folder, any dot file can be visualized by providing the file path as a command line argument to `visualize.py`. For example, to visualize a sample that was created by the generator

```python
python3 visualize.py ../generator/samples/test_0.dot 
```

## Checker

Within the checker folder, any dot file can be passed as the command line argument, and the checker will verify if the graph meets the conditions to be a WG. If it is not a WG, it will output the properties that were violated. Note the current functionality supports only graphs that contain only integer node labels. 

Example 1: A valid WG would produce the following output: 
```
>>> python3 checker.py ../samples/valid.dot
Inputed graph is a Wheeler Graph
```
Example 2: A WG that violates all three conditions would produce the following output:
```
>>> python3 checker.py ../samples/invalid.dot
Inputted graph is not a Wheeler Graph - the following condition(s) not met:
   * 0-indegree nodes come before others
   * a ≺ a′⟹  v < v′
   * (a = a′) ∧ (u < u′) ⟹  v ≤ v′
```

## Generator

Within the generator folder, WG samples can be generated by providing the number of samples desired as the first argument, and the approximate node count for the graph as the second argument. 

Example 1: `python3 generate_WG_samples.py 10 15 ` will generate 10 samples of graphs with approximately 15 nodes within the `/samples` directory. 

Example 2: `python3 generate_WG_samples.py 20 50 ` will generate 20 samples of graphs with approximately 50 nodes within the `/samples` directory. 

Note that there are various generator files within this directory. The vast majority of these were used for internal testing. For example, running `python3 generate_WG_RandomNodes.py 10 10` will generate 10 samples of graphs with approximately 10 nodes, where the overall structure of the graph is valid, but the nodes are in shuffled/random order. The purpose of this is to further test our recognizer. 

## Recognizer

Kuan-Hao Add

## Pattern Detection

Beril Add 
